[Music]
approaching his 111th birthday
the hobbit bilbo baggins begins writing
down the full story of his adventure
60 years earlier for the benefit of his
nephew frodo
long before bilbo's involvement the
dwarf king throar
brought an era of prosperity for his kin
under the lonely mountain
until the arrival of the dragon smaug
destroying the nearby town of dale
smaug drove the dorbz out of their
mountain and took their horde of gold
throar's grandson thorin sees king
thranduil
and his wood elves on a nearby hillside
and is dismayed when they leave
rather than aid his people resulting in
thorin's everlasting hatred of elves
in the shire fifty-year-old bilbo is
tricked by the wizard gandalf the grey
into hosting a dinner for thorin and his
company of dorvs
gandalf's aim is to recruit bilbo as the
company's burglar
to aid them in their quest to enter the
lonely mountain
bilbo is unwilling to accept at first
but has a change of heart after the
company leaves without him the next day
bilbo races to join the company
traveling onward the company is captured
by three trolls
bilbo stalls the trolls from eating them
until dawn and gandalf exposes the
trolls to sunlight
turning them to stone the company
locates the troll's cave
and finds treasure and elven blades
thorin and gandalf
each take an elf made blade orchest
and glamdring gandalf also finds an
elven dagger which he gives to bilbo
the wizard ratagast the brown finds
gandalf and the company
and recounts an encounter at dulgul dur
with the necromancer
a sorcerer who has been corrupting
greenwood with dark magic
chased by orcs gandalf leads the company
through a hidden passage to rivendell
there lord elrond discloses a hidden
indication of a secret door on the
company's map
of the lonely mountain which will be
visible only on durham's day
gandalf later approaches the white
council consisting of elrond
galadriel and saramon the white and
presents a morgle blade a weapon of the
witch king of angmar
which radagast obtained from dolgodur as
a sign that the necromancer is linked to
an eventual return
of sauron while saruman presses concern
to the more present matter of the dorv's
quest
requesting that gandalf put an end to it
gandalf secretly reveals to galadriel
he had anticipated this and had the
dwarves move forward without him
the company journeys into the misty
mountain where they find themselves amid
a colossal battle
between stone giants they take refuge in
a cave and are captured by goblins
who take them to their leader the great
goblin bilbo becomes separated from the
dwarves and falls into a crevice
where he encounters gollum who
unknowingly drops a golden ring
pocketing the ring bilbo finds himself
confronted by gollum
they play a riddle game wagering that
bilbo will be shown the way out if he
wins
or eaten by gollum if he loses bilbo
eventually wins by asking gollum what he
has in his pocket
noticing his ring is lost gollum
realizes that bilbo possesses it
and chases him bilbo discovers that the
ring grants him invisibility
but when he has a chance to kill gollum
bilbo spares his life out of pity
and escapes while gollum shouts his
hatred towards the hobbit baggins
meanwhile the great goblin reveals to
the dwarves that azog
an orc warchief who killed throar and
lost his forearm to thorin in battle
outside the dorvan kingdom maurya
has placed a bounty on thorin's head
gandalf arrives and leads the dorbz in
an escape
killing the great goblin bilbo exits the
mountain and rejoins the company
keeping his newly obtained ring secret
the company is ambushed by azog
and his hunting party and takes refuge
in trees
thorin charges at azog who overpowers
and severely injures him with his warg
bilbo saves thorin from the orcs and
challenges azog
just as the company is rescued by eagles
implied to be sent by galadriel
they escape to the safety of the carrick
where gandalf revives thorin
who renounces his previous disdain for
bilbo after being saved by him
they see the lonely mountain in the
distance where a sleeping
dragon smaug is awoken by a thrush
knocking a snail against a stone